 TERMS AND CONDITIONS
All words and expressions used in these terms and conditions defined section 2 of the cooperative societies law (cap. 35 of the laws of Oyo state of Nigeria) shall have the meaning assigned to them in the above-named section. If there shall arise any doubt regarding the meaning or intention of any of these terms and conditions, the matter shall be referred to the Registrar for a ruling.
i. The objective of the organization is to promote the economic interests of members by:
1.The creation of funds to be lent to members for necessary or productive purposes
2.The provision of facilities for the accumulation of funds by members without such savings being removed from their control.
3.Any other measures designed on cooperative principles to encourage among its members the spirit and practice of thrift and self-help.
4.Acquiring of shares in viable and going concerns.
5.Buying of Developments Stocks, Treasury Bills, securities guaranteed by the government.
6.Establisment of viable projects e.g. setting up of industries, catering services, consumers shops, housing and farming projects etc.
 
ii. The members shall consist of:
1.persons wo join in the application for registration
2.persons admitted in accordance with these terms and conditions.
 
iii. Every member of the society must be
1.ordinarily resident in Nigeria; but a member who leaves the field of membership of this organization may retain his membership therein but may not borrow from in excess of his savings and share capital.
2.of good character
3.of not less than 18 years of age except in the case of a minor taking the place of a deceased member or a situation where the registrar grants an exemption from this qualification.
4.not a member of any other society whose primary object is to grant loans to its members except with the permission of the registrar
 
iv. The liability of members for the debt of the society is limited to two times the nominal value of one share.
 
v. Every member shall nominate one person to whom, should he die or become permanently insane, his shares shall be transferred. The member may at any time change his nominee. If this nominated person is not a member, in the case of death or permanent insanity of the member the nominee will be paid the value of the share or interest less any sum due to the society.
 
vi. Membership shall be terminated by:
1.death
2.permanent insanity
3.ceasing to reside in the area of operations
4.ceasing to hold full share.
5.withdrawal after 6 months’ notice conveyed in a letter to the administrative department of the organization provided the member is not in debt to the society nor surety for an unpaid debt.
6.expulsion
 
vii. A member may be expelled for:
1.repeated failure to make thrift savings
2.repeated failure to pay the share instalments or due from him to the society.
3.conviction on criminal offence involving dishonesty
4.misconduct or other acts contrary the stated objectives/interests of the organization.
 
viii. Liability of past members:
1.a past member shall be liable for the debts due by the organization as they existed on the date when he ceased to be a member, for a period of two years from the date on which he deased to be a member
2.The estate of a deceased member shall be liable for the debts due by the society as they existed at the date of his decease for a period of two years after his decease
 
ix. Any money due on any account from this organization to a member or a past member shall be set off in payment of any sum which he owes or for which he stands surety.
 
x. The ultimate authority under the law in all the affairs of this society shall be the Annual General Meeting held mid-year and would be physical and virtual. The presence of at least one-fourth of the members will be necessary.
xi. The funds of the organization shall be composed of:
1.Savings of members
2.surplus arising out of the business of the organization
3.miscellaneous sources approved by the registrar
 
xii. The funds of the society shall be devoted to the objectives of the organization which were earlier stated.
 
xiii. Every member must hold full shares which shall not be transferable except to a nominee.
 
xiv. Shares are not unconditionally withdrawable; but if at the end of the financial year the organization’s financial situation is favorable, the administrative department may repay to any member whose membership has been terminated during the year a sum not exceeding the amount paid by him on account of shares. Provided that not more than five percent of the total paid up share capital shall be thus paid out in any one year.
 
xv. Shares shall be paid up in not more than 12 instalments. Any member may pay up the full value in advance at any time. Members not paying their instalments by due date may be fined.
 
xvi. No member shall hold more than one-fifth of the number of shares actually paid up. If any member by inheritance or otherwise possesses more than the maximum holding permitted, the organization may sell the excess or buy them.
 
xvii. Compulsory Savings:
1.Every member shall make regular thrift savings which shall be withdrawable only by the permission of the administrative department for necessary or productive purposes.
2.Savings shall be governed by rules framed by the organization.
3.The rate of interest paid on regular thrift savings shall be determined after the surplus has been ascertained and necessary reserves created.
4.The organization may exempt a member from the obligation to make compulsory savings for any period during which his circumstances do not permit such savings.
 
xviii. Use and Custody of Funds
a. The funds of the society may be held in the form of:
  1.a reserve fund
  2.a depreciation fund
  3.an insurance fund
  4.development, education or other approved fund
  5.current or savings bank accounts or cash
      b. Such of the funds of the society as are not required for current use may be invested in any
          manner permitted by the laws and regulations guiding cooperatives.
 
xix. Loans
a. Loans  may be granted to members only for purposes which in the opinion of the administrative department are necessary and in the best interest of the borrower.
b. No loans shall be granted to:
  1.any individual other than a member of the society
  2.any member whose instalments of shares are in arears
  3.any member who has not made thrift savings
c.  Except in the first year of a society no loans shall be made to a member within a month of his admission.
d. No loans shall be granted:
   1.if it would bring a member’s total indebtedness at the time of the loan to an amount exceeding
      his maximum credit limit.
            2.unless all requirements for loan eligibility have been met
      e.  The maximum credit limit of each applicant for a loan shall be fixed by the organization bearing
            in mind the availability of funds, the principle of making credit available to as many members as
            are qualified.
       f.  Interests on loans to members shall be charged at a flat rate of 1.5%. In the case of default in
           repayment penal interest shall be charged at twice the normal rate.
       g. Every borrower shall execute a bond and shall furnish two sureties. No extension of repayment
           shall be granted without the consent of the sureties.
       h. A surety must be a reputable member of the organization and shall personally guarantee:
        1.repayment of the loan if the borrower defaults
        2.the correctness of the particulars on which the value of the borrower security is based.
        3.a member’s commitments as surety shall not when taken together with his own existing
            Borrowing exceed his maximum credit limit
I. All loans shall be issued subject to the right of the organization to call for immediate repayment if:
         1.any misapplication is proved
         2.the borrower gives an indication of resignation
      j.  No member shall borrow from any other source other than the society without the permission of
          the organization.
      k.  When a member from who money is due makes any payment to the society it shall be
           appropriated in the following order: firstly, to share payment, fines and other miscellaneous
           charges due by him. Secondly to interest on loan and thirdly to loan principal.
 
xx. Disposal of Surplus
   a. At the close of each financial year the society’s expenses including the interest payable on deposits
      and loans from non-members and audit supervision fees due shall be deducted from the organization’s income. The net surplus shall be carried to the reserve fund.
c. The balance shall be utilized for one or more of the following purposes:
1.payment of a dividend on shares
2.payment of bonus to members as a refund of a percentage of  interest paid on loans during the year provided that a share dividend of not less than 3% has been declared.
3.donation not exceeding 10% of the net surplus to any charitable or social purpose
4.building up a general reserve.
5.institution of a share tranfer fund.
      c. The dividend paid on shares shall not exceed 5% and no dividend shall be paid if any overdue
           claim to a depositor or lender remains unsatisfied.
 
xxi. Reserve Fund
   The reserve fund is indivisible and no member is entitled to claim a specified share in it. It shall not be utilized in the business of the organization but shall be deposited or invested.
 
xxii. Audit and Supervision Fees at the rate assessed by the registrar and published in the Oyo state of Nigeria Gazette shall be paid annually to the Oyo state Cooperative Federation Limited not later than the thirtieth of June.
 